README.md, before:

# agoric-3-proposals

Proposals run or planned for Mainnet (agoric-3)

This repo serves several functions:

- verify building an image with in which known proposals have executed
- publishing an image with all passed proposals
- verify that certain tests pass after each proposal

## Usage

You can run the latest image like so,

```sh
docker run -p 26657:26657 -p 1317:1317 -p 9090:9090 ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest
```

The `-p` is short for [publish](https://docs.docker.com/network/#published-ports) to make the `agd` [daemon's ports](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/core/grpc_rest.html) available on your host machine:

| Port  | Purpose                 |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
| 1317  | REST server             |
| 9090  | gRPC server             |
| 26657 | Tendermint RPC endpoint |

## Design

## Stages

The build is [multi-stage](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/) with several kinds of stages:

- `START` The very first stage, which run `ag0` instead of `agd` as the other layers do. (This was the version of `agd` before JS VM.)
- `PREPARE` For upgrade proposals: submits the proposal, votes on it, runs to halt for the next stage
- `EXECUTE` For upgrade proposals: starts `agd` with the new SDK, letting its upgrade handler upgrade the chain
- `EVAL` For core-eval proposals: submits the proposal, votes on it, and begin executing. Does not guarantee the eval will finish but does wait several blocks to give it a chance.

All proposals then have two additional stages:

- `USE` Perform actions to update the chain state, to persist through the chain history. E.g. adding a vault that will be tested again in the future.
- `TEST` Test the chain state and perform new actions that should not be part of history. E.g. adding a contract that never was on Mainnet.

The `TEST` stage does not RUN as part of the build. It only defines the ENTRYPOINT and CI runs them all.

The `USE` stage is built into images that are pushed to the image repository. These can be used by release branches to source a particular state of the synthetic chain.

Finally there is a `DEFAULT` target which take the last `USE` image and sets its entrypoint to `./start_agd.sh` which runs the chain indefinitely. This makes it easy to source that image as a way to _run_ the synthetic chain with all passed proposals.

## Proposals

### Types

- Software Upgrade à la https://hub.cosmos.network/hub-tutorials/live-upgrade-tutorial
- Core Eval à la https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/tree/master/packages/vats/src/core
- Not yet supported: combo Upgrade/Eval

### Naming

Each proposal is defined as a subdirectory of `propoals`. E.g. `16:upgrade-8`.

The leading number is its number as submitted to the agoric-3 chain. These are viewable at https://bigdipper.live/agoric/proposals

The string after `:` is the local label for the proposal. It should be distinct, concise, and lowercase. (The string is used in the Dockerfile in a token that must be lowercase.)

If the proposal is _pending_ and does not yet have a number, use a letter. The proposals are run in lexical order so all letters execute after all the numbers are done.

### Files

- `package.json` specifies what kind of proposal it is in a `agoricProposal` field. If it's a "Software Upgrade Proposal" it also includes additional parameters.
- `use.sh` is the script that will be run in the USE stage of the build
- `test.sh` is the script that will be _included_ in the TEST stage of the build, and run in CI

## Development

### Top-level commands

```sh
# build the "use" images (both platforms used),
yarn build

# build test images (current platform) and run them:
yarn test

# run the tests for particular proposals,
yarn test --match upgrade

# debug the tests for one proposal,
yarn test --debug --match upgrade-13
```

## synthetic-chain package

To use a local build of synthetic-chain,

```sh
cd packages/synthetic-chain
npm pack
cd -

for p in $(ls proposals); do
    cp -f packages/synthetic-chain/agoric-synthetic-chain-*.tgz proposals/$p/agoric-synthetic-chain.tgz
    cd proposals/$p
    yarn install
    cd -
done
rm -f packages/synthetic-chain/agoric-synthetic-chain-*.tgz
```

Then find-replace the "@agoric/synthetic-chain" version in package.json with ""file:agoric-synthetic-chain.tgz".

## Debugging

To get the local files into the container, use a [bind mount](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/). E.g.

```sh
docker run -it --entrypoint bash --mount type=bind,src=.,dst=/usr/src/a3p ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:use-upgrade-8
```

### Common errors

#### JS exception

If running `yarn synthetic-chain` throws an exception, it may because the Node version is too old. The `@agoric/synthetic-chain` package declares its "engines" range, but Yarn ignores it when running the bin in this repo. Be sure your Node version is compatible with the range.

The easiest way to do that is to use a Node version manager that honors the `.node-version` file at the top level of the repo. [nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv) does. If you prefer nvm, you may need [avn](https://github.com/wbyoung/avn).

#### Consensus failure

This one reports as failure, but it's actually the mechanism for triggering a chain-halting upgrade:

```text
CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="UPGRADE \"agoric-upgrade-8\" NEEDED at height: 33: {}" module=consensus
```

But this one is a problem:

```text
ERR CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="runtime error: invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference" module=consensus
```

The most likely cause is a problem voting in the the proposal to upgrade.

## Contributing

To add a proposal, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Images

This repo publishes an image of the synthetic agoric-3 chain with all proposals that have "passed" (defined in this repo as having a proposal number).

The CI builds on every push to the trunk branch, (`main`), or a PR branch. You can view all versions at https://github.com/agoric/agoric-3-proposals/pkgs/container/agoric-3-proposals/versions

PR builds don't push images.

The trunk build pushes "use" images for each proposal and a "latest" which points to the highest passed proposal: `ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest`.

If you RUN this image, you'll get a working chain running `agd` until you terminate,

```sh
docker run ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest
```

Or locally,

```sh
docker build -t ghrc.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:dev .
docker run  ghrc.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:dev
```

## Future work

- [ ] include a way to test soft patches that weren't proposals (e.g. PismoB)
- [ ] separate console output for agd and the scripts (had been with tmux before but trouble, try Docker compose https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/discussions/8480#discussioncomment-7438329)
- [ ] way to query capdata in one shot (not resorting to follow jsonlines hackery)
- [ ] within each proposal, separate dirs for supporting files so images don't invalidate

Commit message:

feat: top-level `yarn doctor`
and suggestion to use it in the README

README.md, after:

# agoric-3-proposals

Proposals run or planned for Mainnet (agoric-3)

This repo serves several functions:

- verify building an image with in which known proposals have executed
- publishing an image with all passed proposals
- verify that certain tests pass after each proposal

## Usage

You can run the latest image like so,

```sh
docker run -p 26657:26657 -p 1317:1317 -p 9090:9090 ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest
```

The `-p` is short for [publish](https://docs.docker.com/network/#published-ports) to make the `agd` [daemon's ports](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.46/core/grpc_rest.html) available on your host machine:

| Port  | Purpose                 |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
| 1317  | REST server             |
| 9090  | gRPC server             |
| 26657 | Tendermint RPC endpoint |

## Design

## Stages

The build is [multi-stage](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/) with several kinds of stages:

- `START` The very first stage, which run `ag0` instead of `agd` as the other layers do. (This was the version of `agd` before JS VM.)
- `PREPARE` For upgrade proposals: submits the proposal, votes on it, runs to halt for the next stage
- `EXECUTE` For upgrade proposals: starts `agd` with the new SDK, letting its upgrade handler upgrade the chain
- `EVAL` For core-eval proposals: submits the proposal, votes on it, and begin executing. Does not guarantee the eval will finish but does wait several blocks to give it a chance.

All proposals then have two additional stages:

- `USE` Perform actions to update the chain state, to persist through the chain history. E.g. adding a vault that will be tested again in the future.
- `TEST` Test the chain state and perform new actions that should not be part of history. E.g. adding a contract that never was on Mainnet.

The `TEST` stage does not RUN as part of the build. It only defines the ENTRYPOINT and CI runs them all.

The `USE` stage is built into images that are pushed to the image repository. These can be used by release branches to source a particular state of the synthetic chain.

Finally there is a `DEFAULT` target which take the last `USE` image and sets its entrypoint to `./start_agd.sh` which runs the chain indefinitely. This makes it easy to source that image as a way to _run_ the synthetic chain with all passed proposals.

## Proposals

### Types

- Software Upgrade à la https://hub.cosmos.network/hub-tutorials/live-upgrade-tutorial
- Core Eval à la https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/tree/master/packages/vats/src/core
- Not yet supported: combo Upgrade/Eval

### Naming

Each proposal is defined as a subdirectory of `propoals`. E.g. `16:upgrade-8`.

The leading number is its number as submitted to the agoric-3 chain. These are viewable at https://bigdipper.live/agoric/proposals

The string after `:` is the local label for the proposal. It should be distinct, concise, and lowercase. (The string is used in the Dockerfile in a token that must be lowercase.)

If the proposal is _pending_ and does not yet have a number, use a letter. The proposals are run in lexical order so all letters execute after all the numbers are done.

### Files

- `package.json` specifies what kind of proposal it is in a `agoricProposal` field. If it's a "Software Upgrade Proposal" it also includes additional parameters.
- `use.sh` is the script that will be run in the USE stage of the build
- `test.sh` is the script that will be _included_ in the TEST stage of the build, and run in CI

## Development

### Top-level commands

```sh
# build the "use" images (both platforms used),
yarn build

# build test images (current platform) and run them:
yarn test

# run the tests for particular proposals,
yarn test --match upgrade

# debug the tests for one proposal,
yarn test --debug --match upgrade-13
```

## synthetic-chain package

To use a local build of synthetic-chain,

```sh
cd packages/synthetic-chain
npm pack
cd -

for p in $(ls proposals); do
    cp -f packages/synthetic-chain/agoric-synthetic-chain-*.tgz proposals/$p/agoric-synthetic-chain.tgz
    cd proposals/$p
    yarn install
    cd -
done
rm -f packages/synthetic-chain/agoric-synthetic-chain-*.tgz
```

Then find-replace the "@agoric/synthetic-chain" version in package.json with ""file:agoric-synthetic-chain.tgz".

## Debugging

To get the local files into the container, use a [bind mount](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/). E.g.

```sh
docker run -it --entrypoint bash --mount type=bind,src=.,dst=/usr/src/a3p ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:use-upgrade-8
```

### Common errors

`yarn doctor` can diagnose (and fix!) a number of common problems.

#### JS exception

If running `yarn synthetic-chain` throws an exception, it may because the Node version is too old. The `@agoric/synthetic-chain` package declares its "engines" range, but Yarn ignores it when running the bin in this repo. Be sure your Node version is compatible with the range.

The easiest way to do that is to use a Node version manager that honors the `.node-version` file at the top level of the repo. [nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv) does. If you prefer nvm, you may need [avn](https://github.com/wbyoung/avn).

#### Consensus failure

This one reports as failure, but it's actually the mechanism for triggering a chain-halting upgrade:

```text
CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="UPGRADE \"agoric-upgrade-8\" NEEDED at height: 33: {}" module=consensus
```

But this one is a problem:

```text
ERR CONSENSUS FAILURE!!! err="runtime error: invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference" module=consensus
```

The most likely cause is a problem voting in the the proposal to upgrade.

## Contributing

To add a proposal, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Images

This repo publishes an image of the synthetic agoric-3 chain with all proposals that have "passed" (defined in this repo as having a proposal number).

The CI builds on every push to the trunk branch, (`main`), or a PR branch. You can view all versions at https://github.com/agoric/agoric-3-proposals/pkgs/container/agoric-3-proposals/versions

PR builds don't push images.

The trunk build pushes "use" images for each proposal and a "latest" which points to the highest passed proposal: `ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest`.

If you RUN this image, you'll get a working chain running `agd` until you terminate,

```sh
docker run ghcr.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:latest
```

Or locally,

```sh
docker build -t ghrc.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:dev .
docker run  ghrc.io/agoric/agoric-3-proposals:dev
```

## Future work

- [ ] include a way to test soft patches that weren't proposals (e.g. PismoB)
- [ ] separate console output for agd and the scripts (had been with tmux before but trouble, try Docker compose https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/discussions/8480#discussioncomment-7438329)
- [ ] way to query capdata in one shot (not resorting to follow jsonlines hackery)
- [ ] within each proposal, separate dirs for supporting files so images don't invalidate
